After looking at the AWS offerings,
AWS Systems Manager looked like the best fit to replace those
management suites that Globomantics has on premises.
So why don't we just look at what Systems Manager actually is.
AWS Systems Manager consists of many different
components that, in one way or another,
we will be touching on throughout the course.
Systems Manager automation, really at a very high level,
enables you to execute very common maintenance and
deployment tasks to AWS resources.
For example,
you can configure and manage specific AWS resources like EC2 virtual machines,
or you create custom workflows to create new AWS virtual machine images,
your golden image if you will.
Another example could be to respond to AWS events and,
for example, patch virtual machines, shut virtual machines down,
or execute other tasks, like sending messages to a chat system.
Another major component of Systems Manager is called run command. It
enables you to securely execute commands against AWS EC2 virtual
machines and even on‑premises virtual machines.
These commands could be commands to install an application, to update
Windows, to change a user's password, or to even create a user.
Really, imagination is your limit here.
Patch Manager, as the name suggests,
is there to potentially replace your on‑premises patch management system.
It applies security hotfixes or other application updates to VMs following
custom classification and categorization of updates while also, obviously,
following your defined maintenance windows. We all know that maintaining
secrets and other values that we need to use during deployments or
automation is really difficult.
Hard‑coded passwords are still a very common occurrence.
Systems Manager Parameter Store makes this a lot easier.
Parameter Store is a secured AWS managed service that is
integrated into pretty much all other services.
You can put secrets into the service and programmatically
retrieve the secrets whenever you need them again.
These secrets can be database connection strings,
user passwords, certificate keys, or any other strings.
Maybe you're an operations engineer, IT professional, or systems engineer.
You will need something like OpsCenter,
a central location where you can view and investigate work items that
relate to something happening in your AWS environment.
It aggregates and standardizes operational items like alerts and
other events across your environment to provide you a single
location during the investigation of any issue.
It's designed to reduce the mean time to resolution for
any issues impacting AWS services.
And last, but not least, we will then also look at Session Manager.
It allows you to securely connect to a terminal on your
virtual machines without, I repeat without, exposing these
virtual machines out to the internet. Jump boxes and bastion hosts are a thing of the past.